pretty soon you're going to have to pay
if you want any sort of views or growth
on Instagram or at least that's what
myself and a lot of other people thought
when the news initially broke about the
new metav verified tiered subscription
options but we've learned a lot since
then in fact I've even had a call with
meta myself which is something that you
hear a lot of people say in marketing I
feel like it's kind of a a viral hook
nowadays to say I had a call with meta
but I actually did and I was shocked to
do so they reached out to me because the
post that I initially made reporting on
this update got a lot of news and got
spread like a wildfire and So Meta
reached out to me to clear the air and
to answer my
questions and I know as I say that you
may not believe me and that's totally
fine if you don't believe me I think
heading into anything with a healthy
amount of skepticism is a good idea and
that's a theme that you're going to hear
throughout today's episode I think
whenever some big government agency or
some Mega Corporation or even some quote
un expert like myself or my mom tells
you something you should approach it
with a healthy amount of skepticism a
healthy amount of hm let's see if this
is true let me test it for myself let me
experiment and do my own research and my
own digging to find what works for me or
to find what is true for me but while I
can't legally play you a recording from
my call with meta I do need to let you
know that at least for my personal
reasons and I hope I don't get sued for
saying this I did record the
conversation for my own record so that I
can refer back to it with precise detail
so I'm not having to rely on my notes or
my memory of what we talked about I took
an audio recording and that was for my
own protection so that if anything does
change in the future I have their word
as at least at this day and time what
they were telling me and I'm going to
share as much as I can from that
conversation with you in today's episode
over the past weekend I made a post on
my stories that said something along the
lines of hey I know Instagram has been
crazy recently so many changes so much
frustration so much known but I just
kind of want to remind everyone that
everything will work out for the best
and everything will work out the way it
was supposed to and we will still be
able to grow and monetize these
platforms keep working on your skills da
d d continue to be positive and
reaffirming but quite a few people
reached out to me after that story
saying wait what happened what's going
on I'm lost and so for those of you who
replied to that story with that message
or for those of you who are listening
right now and you're like wait what was
that hook about Brock what are we even
talking about what is all this drama let
me give you the too long don't read
version of the news meta the parent
company of Facebook and Instagram is
rolling out a new tiered subscription
model where if you pay different monthly
fees ranging from as low as $15 a month
and as high as $350 per month you're
going to unlock certain benefits and
features and perks within Facebook and
Instagram now that's the headline which
is where most people stop reading and
stop listening let's continue continue
though because you clicked on this video
you clicked on this podcast for a reason
you're ready to learn what you actually
need to know what is actually going on
and let me break that all down for you
first and foremost by sharing the facts
or at least what meta is telling us the
facts are directly on their website and
directly in this call that I had with
them and then I will share with you my
thoughts my opinions and the outlooks
heading towards the future first I want
to start by giving a shout out to Lucas
O'Keefe because he was the first person
who I saw report on this and then very
quickly I was like oh my gosh I need to
come out with a report on this I need to
let people know about this news part of
my job as someone who teaches strategies
and tips to growing on Instagram is also
reporting on breaking news on Instagram
and the things that are changing in the
algorithm and the new features the
things that are relevant to creators and
business owners so I knew I had to
report on this and a few members of our
team who are responsible with making
sure that you know we're staying up to
date so it's not just my eyeballs but
it's multiple people on our team reached
out to me saying hey I just wanted to
make sure you saw this make sure you
were aware of it we talked about it
internally briefly uh to figure out what
our initial thoughts and reactions were
and then I quite literally pulled over
to the side of the road pulled my
microphone out of my backpack I had just
gotten off of a long flight and I was
like all right I need to record an
update on this right now and my reaction
was based off what I could read on
meta's website and you can read it for
yourself you can read along with me or
if you're watching on YouTube we'll put
screenshots up here uh in the video but
you can go to mea.com
verified to read more about this entire
program it's not something that was like
a leak or something that was like
discovered by some testers this is
public knowledge on meta's website so
let's go through it first and foremost
let's lay the groundwork the kind of
prerequisite for for where we are in
this conversation and that is that meta
verified is a program that began about a
year and a half ago where creators
originally in just Australia but now
worldwide can pay a small monthly fee
it's about $15 and it varies depending
on your country and currency but you pay
about $15 and you unlock four key
benefits those four key benefits are
number one impersonation protection so
that if someone is trying to copy your
account and pretend to be you Instagram
is going to theoretically stop them from
doing so the second thing is improved
account security it's not exactly clear
how they're doing that or what they are
providing but nonetheless that is one of
the listed benefits the the third one is
the one that most people think of and it
is the one that honestly a lot of people
are after just plain and simple and that
is the blue check mark the famous
Infamous blue check mark on social media
that was usually reserved for
celebrities and influencers now can be
purchased for $5 per month and then the
fourth and final benefit that meta gives
you as part of meta verified is chat
support now I have heard from quite a
few people that the chat support can be
relatively slow from my understanding
it's a team at meta that is stretched
very thin and it's a team that doesn't
necessarily have the best marketing
advice they're not necessarily there to
help you create better content or grow
they're really just there to help you if
you have like a technical issue on
Instagram or a glitch that you need to
make someone aware of now that's been
around for about a year and a half and
according to our data it doesn't
necessarily help people with getting
more views or reach or exposure
originally when this program first
rolled out in Australia they did include
improved reach as one of the benefits
that was listed but they very quickly
removed that one because a lot of people
were very upset and made a lot of noise
saying hey meta like is this pay for
play here like do I have to pay $15 a
month if I want my followers to see my
stuff So Meta got rid of it and that's
important I want you to keep that in
mind as we continue through today's
conversation but again it's been around
for about a year and a half now and
while people definitely do get the blue
check mark they do get access to the
support they do apparently get
impersonation prote
there aren't any real differences in
terms of growth or engagement a lot of
people claim that after they join metav
verified their engagement declined I
think that it's important to remember
that correlation does not equal
causation and just because they join
metav verified that's not necessarily
the reason their reach declined I think
it's more likely that they just like
everyone else on Instagram had their
views and reach declining over the last
year and it wasn't directly because of
the blue check mark but uh nonetheless
we don't see any major differences
positively or or negatively as a result
of joining metav verified but when that
program first rolled out it was around
the same time that Elon Musk on X
formerly Twitter rolled out a few
different tiered subscription models
where flat out he plainly states you
have to pay if you want to grow you have
to pay if you want to reach new
followers you have to pay if you want
certain Advanced features and so a lot
of social media strategists and social
media marketing experts like myself and
like my mom started sounding the alarm
Bells and saying this is the beginning
of the end for a decade or even two
decades we've been saying we've been
saying it on stages we've been saying it
on podcast we've been saying it
constantly social media is free and you
need to take advantage of it while it is
free because it's not going to be free
forever we have this opportunity this
once in a lifetime once in 50
Generations opportunity to get to reach
tens of thousands hundreds of thousands
millions of people just by clicking our
phone in a few spots and sharing some
videos online and we get to do that
largely for free but now and this is
what we started saying a year ago we're
approaching a territory where you got to
pay to play the people who are paying
more are going to be getting better
benefits better reach better growth
better features and now this seems like
the next step now we're not going to get
fully into my opinion just yet I do want
to continue sharing the facts with you
but I do want you to have an idea that
that's where we're headed even if this
program itself isn't directly pay for
play this is another step towards paying
a social media platform for basic quote
unquote features and slightly Advanced
uh you know benefits that they're
offering but now let's get into what's
new what does it actually say on mea.com
verified there are four new additional
tiers besides the first one the first
one again is meta verified standard for
creators it's $15 a month it includes
those four things that I listed and now
it actually does include two more
additional benefits that are an enhanced
profile with no clear details as to what
that means and search optimization with
some details later explaining what that
means but again metav verified standard
for creators they specify that is for
creators $15 a month the first tier of
the new tiered subscription model is
called metav verified business standard
so they specify that it is for business
and it is also $15 a month and it
includes all of the same things as metav
verified standard for creators it
includes the verified badge the
impersonation protection the metav
verified chat support the enhanced
profile and search optimization now once
we graduate from that tier is where we
start to get new features and where we
start paying a lot more the second tier
is called metav verified business plus
and that tier is available for
$44.99 per month so essentially $45 per
month and that includes all of the
benefits from business standard so
everything that I've already listed and
it also includes metav verified support
and there's a bullet point below it that
says get issues resolved more quickly so
from the best that we can understand
from what that's saying is it's
basically trying to say that if you
submit a chat support query or you're
like asking a question or you're sending
a message to The Meta support team
you're going to get your questions
answered faster you're basically paying
to cut the line so to speak the next
bullet point says enhanced profile which
you did see before but now it
specifically says enhanced profile with
two bullet points below it the first
bullet point says Share three business
addresses so if you think about a
business that maybe has multiple
locations or a few different shops a few
different spots where it does business
you can now include multiple addresses
you can include all of those addresses
in your bio so you're not limited to
just one also part of the enhanced
profile is Showcase three of your other
profiles so again the way I think about
this is if you are let's say an ice
cream parlor and you also have three
other satellite locations and maybe a
food truck you can pin their locations
in your bio and you can also tag those
profiles or I should say showcase those
profiles in your bio because you're
already able to tag in your bio but now
you're going to be able to Showcase
which I believe is going to look kind of
similar to like a recommended profile so
if you've ever followed someone new on
Instagram and Instagram kind of drops
down that little menu of hey here's some
suggested profiles that you might like
basically you're going to be able to
Showcase three of your own business's
profiles within uh that little section
the next benefit is quite honestly what
ruffled my feathers and what got a lot
of people upset and still to this day
has a lot of people scratching their
head and questioning what's really going
on here and it is quote unquote featured
account below that there's a bullet
point that says get featured as a metav
verified
business in feed to introduce your
business to new audiences now there is a
learn more section if you visit mea.com
verified where you can see what this
looked like and I specifically asked the
meta team when I had this conversation
with them what's this all about like
what's this going to look like and based
off the mockups on their website and
based off what they told me on this call
it's going to be similar to some
existing units that you see right now on
your Instagram feed so if you scroll
through Instagram feed you might see one
of two of these following sections you
might see a section that is recommended
threads posts so they're not Instagram
photos or reals they're screenshots or
like little tiny previews from threads
that is similar to what is going to be
offered here or maybe you you have seen
a section in your Instagram feed that is
like people you may know or recommended
accounts these are accounts that
Instagram thinks you either have a
relationship with you know in the real
world or maybe you might just like to
consume this account's content based off
of the content you've consumed in the
past well now there's going to be a new
section that is specifically for
Featured businesses who are paying to be
a part of metav verified business Plus
or one of the higher tiers now how the
ranking is going to work is not exactly
clear how frequently this is going to
show up is not exactly clear where in
the feed this is going to show up like
is this going to show up right below the
stories but above all the photos is this
going to show up above the stories is
this going to kind of be mixed in
randomly as if it was like an
advertisement or any other post in the
feed we're not exactly clear we don't
exactly know yet but nonetheless we can
read directly from meta themselves you
are going to be featured as a meta
verified business in feed to introduce
your business to new audiences now
unquestionably this is going to lead to
an increase in profile reach does this
mean that your posts are going to reach
more people maybe indirectly like if
someone sees this little recommended
profile they tap on your profile and
then they go look at your posts it could
provide in that case an increase to your
feed reach but Instagram has been very
clear and we'll get into this more as we
continue that this program is not
designed to be a direct increase to
views or reach however just based off
how people use social media and how the
algorithms work if your account is being
recommended people are going to either
follow the account and then see the
posts or they're going to click on the
account and even if they don't follow
they still might click on the post which
theoretically would indirectly boost
your accounts reach and then the final
new benefit is a really interesting new
feature that I don't think enough people
are paying attention to and it's links
in reels and specifically at the
business plus level you can put two
links in your reels per month now again
they have a mockup available and it
looks like it's going to be a little
button at the bottom of your reel kind
of where like the music button is so
there's going to be like the label of
the audio that you're using and then
right next to it there's going to be a
little clickable link which is a game
changer because so far on Instagram the
only links that are available are links
in the direct message or links that are
in the bio there's no other clickable
links if you comment a link or you put a
link in your captions or you put a link
um you know in the the photo or the
video itself it's not clickable I guess
I forgot one there are links on stories
so those are the three you got links on
stories Link in BIO and Link in DMs but
now you're going to be able to add a
link to up to two reals per month very
interesting let's continue though on to
the penultimate tier which is called
metav verified business premium so again
we have standard plus and now we have
premium premium is available for
$120 us per month it includes all of the
same benefits as business plus but it
also includes impersonation protection
for two of your employees now how that
exactly Works we're not sure sure but
it's going to I guess help you keep some
of your staff safe on Instagram you also
are going to receive the ability to call
metav verified chat support so rather
than just having to send them like a
chat message like a text message and and
get help that way you're going to be
able to actually pick up the phone and
talk to a human being on the other end
to get your uh requests your support
handled in a quicker fashion
Additionally you are still going to have
a quote unquote enhanced profile but now
instead of three addresses and three
other profiles you're going to be able
to share five business addresses and
showcase five of your other profiles so
maybe if you're a business with a big
chain like you have multiple multiple
locations maybe spread out across the
state you're going to be able to share
the location and the profile of all of
those businesses Allin one bio how
exactly that's going to look whether or
not that's going to be cluttered whether
or not that's going to be a best
practice or something that we would
recommend is yet to be seen but
nonetheless it is a new feature
described directly by meta on their site
and it's something that we have never
seen before then under the section that
says featured account this is very
interesting it says more featured and it
says nothing else now when you do click
the learn more button you're able to see
a similar mockup design to what we saw
for business plus which is again where
you're getting that kind of like infeed
tab section and maybe if you're paying
for premium you're going to show up in
front of the businesses that are are
paying for plus but nonetheless
Instagram meta Facebook they give
themselves quite a lot of Lee room this
is my opinion at this point they give
themselves quite a lot of free room and
flexibility by just saying more feature
there's a lot that can be interpreted a
lot of a wiggle room if you will within
quote unquote more featured and then you
are able to add links in up to four
reels per month so it's double what it
was with business plus and then the
final benefit is customized messaging
chats which I'm not exactly clear on
what's going on with that uh because you
can already customize your direct
message chats and pick what the
background color is going to be I guess
maybe you're going to be able to create
like your own custom backgrounds now
which I guess might be cool for like you
know McDonald's like if you're chatting
with McDonald's maybe it's red and the
the messages back and forth are yellow
or something like that but I don't see
customized messaging chats as a a tool
that's going to be very useful for the
average creator or business owner but
again I don't want to get tooo lost in
my opinions just yet nonetheless I do
want to report on the facts which are
that if you pay the $120 per month you
get the ability to customize messaging
chats now let's talk about the top tier
the crem Dela crem the max you could pay
Instagram your job might still be on the
floor from when I said it earlier but if
you pay for metav verified business Max
what they're calling it you will be
paying $350
per month $350 per month and that
includes all the benefits that I
previously listed as part of business
premium in addition to you will also get
five accounts that your employees have
with impersonation protection so you'll
get to uh protect five of your employees
with impersonation protection you will
get metav verified support that includes
not just sending messages via text not
just hopping on the phone it includes
active case monitoring what exactly that
means what they're going to be actively
monitoring for not exactly clear but you
will get most likely the fastest
response times you might even have
someone dedicated to your account
monitoring for things like hackers or
spam or glitches I'm not sure but it
says active case monitoring additionally
your enhanced profile will receive not
five but eight business addresses so you
can tag eight other addresses for your
business in your bio and you can
showcase eight of your other profile in
your bio again this seems to be
primarily for businesses for
corporations that are maybe part of a
chain have multiple locations multiple
outposts that they do business from this
is who meta says directly they are
trying to reach not just here on their
site but in our call that is who they
have said that this is specifically for
this is not for creators that's not who
they intend this to be used by they
intend this to be used by the big
players the big corporations the big
businesses who honestly are spending a
lot of money in ads and it makes sense
this is my opinion it makes sense that
meta wants to cater to them and wants to
take care of them if they have
businesses that are spending Millions
tens of millions hundreds of millions
maybe even billions of dollars every
year in advertising then it makes sense
that meta would want to provide
additional support to a company like say
Coca-Cola now whether or not Coca-Cola
should have to pay an additional $350
per month I don't know whether or not
this should just be based off of like
how much you're spending in ads I don't
know but regardless meta wants this to
be for business not for creators now
let's get into the final three bullet
points because two of these three are
the spiciest in my opinion the first of
the final three is featured account
which of course all these other ones had
but it just says most featured now if
you go to mea.com verified and you click
the learn more button you can hover over
this button uh that says Mo most
featured and you can see again there's
just this little unit in the Instagram
feed where you know there's different
businesses that are verified that meta
is recommending but like I said earlier
there's a lot of wiggle room in quote
unquote most featured does that mean
your posts are going to get most
featured in the feed does that mean meta
might show your stories to more people
does that mean you might show up more on
the explore page or the reals tab we
don't know as of yet meta hasn't said
this uh they've actually said that this
is not the case but things could change
and things could change as evidenced by
the next bullet point which is links in
reels it says six per month when this
program originally rolled out when they
first created this page on their site it
said eight per month and I know that
because I took screenshots and in my
original post announcing this program
you can see very plainly that it says
eight links in your reels per month they
have since Chang that to six links in
your reels per month and that is also
clear from my phone call with them with
meta they explicitly said hey this is
still something that's in testing
nothing is set in stone nothing is a
guarantee at this point these are things
that we're testing it's a lot of trial
and error we're still figuring it out
nothing is guaranteed at this point and
we've already seen that in the change
from eight links in your reels to now
six links in your reels now moving on to
the final bullet point this is something
that I never expected from Instagram
this is something that even reading
through every bullet point that I've
read through before I I didn't expect to
read this one um as one of the benefits
for metav verified business Max but this
final benefit is a semi anual account
review now I have so many questions
first and foremost let's just start with
semiannual how often are we doing every
six months are we doing once a quarter
are we doing once a month is it whenever
you ask my next question what does it
mean by account review like is it just
hey your account looks good you're you
know all your statuses are good you
haven't had any content violations or is
it like hey 20% of your followers are
spam will help you remove them or is it
an actual like marketing Rie like hey
here are some ideas here are some things
you could do differently here's how you
could tweak your bio my guess is it
won't be that and even if it is that are
they like hiring trained marketing
professionals to be handling these
account review calls that's crazy and
the price point is crazy I mean you're
paying over $4,000 a year you're paying
like
$4,200 a year for a semiannual account
review Shameless plug time we offer
account reviews as part of the insta
clubhub and in fact you even have to be
an insta clubhub member to get a review
by us and our team we sell them for less
than a hundred bucks forget $350 a month
we sell them for less than 100 bucks
I'll put the link down in the
description but that's done by an actual
team of marketing professionals who have
an expertise in growing and selling on
Instagram we look at your profile your
bio we analyze it we tell you what could
be changed what you're doing well we
look at your posts and your reels and
your hashtags and we give you feedback
like you're doing this well this could
be improved here's some tips that you
know could uh help your account reach
more people or grow faster that's
something that we make available for
like 80 bucks let alone Instagrams
$350 per month I mean that's that's
crazy so many questions I wanted to give
a little Shameless plug for us cuz we
are literal marketing professionals who
are giving advice for less than a tenth
of what meta is offering now with all of
that out of the way let's go back in
time to when I first read this and my
initial reaction my initial reaction
action was anger mostly a little bit of
confusion but mostly anger a little bit
of surprise a little bit um I won I
won't say panicked because I never
honestly this is the truth I never
really panic but I was like wow this is
big news like this is something that a
lot of people need to be made aware of
and you're welcome to form whatever
opinion you want that's how I felt then
that's how I feel now you're welcome to
form whatever opinion you want but no
matter what opinion you feel whether you
love this program you hate this program
you have questions I want you to be made
aware of it I don't want this to be a
secret so I made a post and it kind of
went viral like it didn't go 15 million
views viral but it got a lot of views
and my post itself ruffled some feathers
because a lot of people claimed that I
was fearmongering or clickbait and that
was never my intention and I apologize
to anyone who felt panicked or who felt
fearful or who felt you know stressed
out and overwhelmed by the post I made
that was never my intention my intention
was to get your attention to make sure
that you were aware of this program and
to allow you to form your own opinion
looking back I do think I could have
done so in a way that maybe incited less
drama uh let's say but nonetheless the
news was out the word was spread and it
reached so far as to reach meta
themselves this post was originally
shared Wednesday afternoon fast forward
now to Friday afternoon I was having
lunch sitting there and I I got an email
that looked a little fishy at first
because I received spam emails claiming
to be meta every day telling me my
accounts in violation and hello sir or
Madam your account's going to be
declined kindly send us your password
and your Social Security number I'm sure
you get those as well but this one
literally called out like yes we
actually have real people working at
meta I am an actual real person we saw
your post about the new metav verified
uh tiered subscription offerings and we
want to talk about it we'd to hop on a
call with you to just kind of you know
clear the air and talk about this
program and answer your questions and to
my surprise I responded and I was like
okay let's set up a time to chat and we
did we spoke that afternoon um about
this program the person who I spoke to
on the call which it was an actual
face-to-face uh kind of like a zoom call
uh answered my questions gave me the
very um buttoned up lawyer approved
answers that I am legally allowed to
share with people people I didn't sign
an NDA so I guess technically I'm
allowed to share anything uh but I won't
be doing that out of respect for meta
and out of respect to the person who
reached out to me I won't be sharing
everything that was shared in this call
uh but I am sharing everything I can as
transparently as possible and really the
the two cents that I gained the summary
of this call was that no the official
stance of meta is that no you will not
directly receive more views more reach
or improved ranking which is is where
you show up in the feed because you're
paying us regardless if you're paying
the $15 or the $350 per month no that is
flat out incorrect that is a misjudge of
this page that we've been breaking down
so far to which I said okay you know if
that's true that is good news I also
asked for some clarifications because I
said it says right here you will be the
most featured if you pay for business
Mac so what does that mean and they said
essentially that means that you're going
to be a part of uh that little unit in
the Instagram feed and you're not going
to be like prioritized in rank you're
just going to show up maybe first in the
line in that queue I said okay that
makes sense well what about the quote
unquote enhanced profile in search
engine optimization that we heard about
earlier what's really going on there and
they said well the enhanced profile is
just those extra buttons and links and
tags that you can add in your profile
it's not like you're going to get some
fancy new like banners or customizable
buttons or anything like that and they
also said that when they say search
optimization it really just means that
if multiple accounts have a similar
username to you or the same Instagram
name which is that like bold text below
your profile picture if multiple
accounts have the same or similar names
you will show up first if you're a part
of metav verified which okay that makes
sense like if there are Brock 11 Johnson
impersonators or if there's just someone
else who's named Brock Johnson and has
you know a similar username to me if I'm
paying to be a part of metav verified
and someone types in Brock or Brock
Johnson my name will show up above
theirs that makes sense to me um but
again this is what meta is saying and so
I said earlier that we should head into
everything with a healthy amount of
skepticism and that's how I'm
approaching all of this I have what meta
told me and that's all I can go off of
we haven't seen this program rolled out
we haven't seen the results of it we
haven't seen its implications yet we can
make assump and we can forecast what's
going to happen and how this is going to
affect doing business on Instagram but
all we have right now is what meta said
on their site what meta has told me on
this call and that's really it now could
this call have been a way to kind of
smooth things over and make me happy and
make me stop talking about this and stop
Spreading the News because they you know
have a mob showing up on their door with
angry pitchforks and the the Pitchfork
mob is showing up because I made a post
about it now Instagram's like let's just
make him happy let's let him a phone
call with us let's let's appease him
that's totally possible that's totally
possible um and I will say meta the
company doesn't have the best track
record meta the company has been known
to do quite a few Shady things quite a
few things that um you know not a lot of
people would be proud if the business
they're a part of has done that uh I'm
talking about lobbying I'm talking about
investing in other corporations I'm me
I'm talking about uh changes to the
platform and rewarding certain creators
over other creators there's a long
history of meta doing some not so great
things pretty much everything I just
said is my opinion and most of it is
alleged as well but with all that being
said I do also want to say on a personal
note my opinion is that every person who
I've ever spoken to who works at meta
has been wonderful which is kind of this
weird dichotomy for me as someone who
teaches how to grow on Instagram which
is an meta plat it's a meta platform uh
it's kind of a weird feeling for me to
have in that like the parent platform of
meta isn't my favorite company in the
world but the people who work at meta
which I've I've worked with quite a few
of them now on different products and
tests and now having this one-on-one
phone call with them um they've all been
wonderful they've all been very nice and
very kind and they're aware of the
challenges and struggles that creators
and entrepreneurs go through on a daily
basis but the problem is they're
employees of a company that might have a
different directive sometimes now in
summer do I think that this is the end
of organic reach on Instagram no I do
not do I believe that the only way
you're going to be able to grow make
money build a following or get
engagement in the future is if you pay
Instagram no I don't believe that to be
true do I believe that the businesses
who are paying you know this $15 to $350
fee are going to get slightly better
results I do think that's the case I do
think they might get preferential
treatment on Instagram am I going to be
a part of this program if possible yes I
I do plan to join this program because
we have a business that is fortunate
enough uh to be making enough that we
can afford this monthly fee and if this
monthly fee does result in X number of
growth even if it's a small percent of
growth that might offset the cost and so
I view this as an investment and I also
want to be a part of it just to test to
feel for myself and experience in my own
business my own account what's really
going on here what's really like behind
the scenes I do want to say that I'm not
sure how I'm going to become a part of
this program because I have the blue
badge I am verified but I'm not metav
verified I got the blue badge back in
2020 before metav verified was a thing
I've tried to apply for metav verified
in the past but I've never been able to
get access I actually asked meta about
this on the call um and was like hey am
I going to be able to be a part of this
like what about other businesses who are
ver verified already are they going to
be able to be a part of this um and they
said um first of all they weren't aware
that some businesses that have the blue
check already haven't been able to be a
part of metav verified so they'll check
on that basically the the answer was I
don't know but the answer was that I
should be able to so if I am able to I
will join uh this program and I will
test it out for myself I think the
biggest lesson to be learned here is a
few things number one it's become cliche
at this point but with every algorithm
change with every new platform with
every crash with every letdown with
every glitch with every hack it's a
reminder that we need to be building an
email list we need to be building a
following that we own and that's what an
email list is it's a it's a platform of
contacts it's a way that we can get in
front of our customers our followers our
subscribers our fans that we own and
that largely we control it's not
dependent on whether or not Instagram is
showing your reals to new people this
week it's not dependent on whether or
not your YouTube video is getting pushed
going viral it's dependent on you
clicking send on that email and in
addition to an email list I also believe
it's important to build on multiple
platforms if you have a dozen eggs I
don't think that they should be equally
divided amongst half a dozen baskets but
if you have a dozen eggs I also don't
think that they should all be in one
basket I think putting all of your eggs
in Tik Tok basket or YouTube basket or
Instagram basket is not safe because if
you get hacked if you lose that platform
if the algorithms change if whatever
goes wrong wrong right Murphy's Law what
can go wrong will go wrong if it does
when it does you lose access to all
dozen of those eggs so while I don't
believe you should equally distribute
your time energy and efforts across
every platform I do think you should
show up on at least two or three
platforms and one of the great things
about the current state that social
media is in is it's so easy to take
short form clips and post them as reals
and YouTube shorts and Tik Tok and you
can post them on Twitter and Linkedin
and Pinterest you can take your long
form content and post it on YouTube and
on Tik Tok and even links to it on
Twitter and threads and Facebook and
Linkedin so there's so many different
ways that you can spread your content
around and that you can repurpose your
content without having to create a
significant amount of effort there um so
I think that a build an email list B
make sure that you're building on
multiple social media platforms and not
just one and see and this might be my
biggest takeaway from all of this the
people who make the best content will
win the people who have the skills of
content creation and who can create
quality captivating content that
converts that converts a viewer into a
follower a follower into a fan and a fan
into a customer the people who know how
to do that will win regardless if they
stay on Instagram if they go to YouTube
any platform regardless if all of these
platforms switch to a payto playay model
the people who make the best content are
going to win because at the end of the
day I don't care if you're meta I don't
care if you're Tik Tok I don't care if
you're YouTube if you allow people to
pay you to show content the people
paying you the most are the people who
get their content seen the most if that
content is bad people won't stay engaged
if that content is shitty people will
Fast Forward if that content is not
entertaining people will not pay
attention they will leave your platform
and when they leave your platform when
the user based when the attention leaves
the platform the platform is Dead
Forever that is why platforms die
platforms die because we collectively
choose to give our attention somewhere
else Snapchat took a nose dive in 2018
because Kylie Jenner said that I'm
leaving Snapchat I'm going back to
Instagram and millions of people went
with her we gave our attention from
Snapchat to Instagram because of this
new thing called Instagram stories and
so Snapchat lost a lot of Revenue they
lost a lot of ability to show
advertisements they lost a lot of
ability to make money because millions
of people left the platform I don't
think that's going to happen to
Instagram anytime soon but that could
happen to any platform including
Instagram at any moment and so bigger
picture here rather than panicking about
the potentials of having to pay to play
rather than panicking about the things
that you ultimately cannot control which
are the algorithm the outcomes the likes
the views the engagement the viral ity
the things that you cannot control I
want you to focus on what you can
control and what you can control is the
process what you can control is your own
content creation what you can control is
the captivating qualities of your hooks
your storytelling your calls to action
your camera presence your charisma the
way you show up on camera what you can
control is your editing skills what you
can control is the things that you do
along the way and so that's what I want
you to focus on that's what I want your
takeway way to be from all of this is I
want you to continue to to pour into
your own growth and development and by
listening to podcasts like the one
you're hearing today you are doing so
you are learning you are growing you are
educating yourself so take a few minutes
I don't care if it's this show you keep
listening to other episodes to build
your tribe or you're listening to other
podcasts or you're watching other
YouTube videos or you're listening to my
other podcast social media moneymakers I
don't care what you're listening to I
want you to continue to consume
educational content that helps you learn
helps you learn the skills and the
techniques and the the systems and the
softwares but more even than learning I
think I want you to keep doing I want
you to keep posting keep sharing keep
creating because better quality content
doesn't always come from learning better
quality content comes from a higher
quantity of content translation if you
want to make better posts get to
practicing get to posting get to
creating create a 100 crappy posts
because your 101st one you will have
learned so much that it will be a lot
better it won't be crappy anymore so I
do want to encourage you to yes keep
learning but even more so keep doing
keep practiceing keep improving your
skills and all of this won't matter
it'll all work itself out for the best
you will continue to grow your business
will be successful you will achieve all
of those goals that you set out for
yourself just keep creating content keep
focusing on yourself staying in your
lane improving 1% each day and
eventually you'll look back and you'll
be like I didn't pay the $350 a month
but I had my best year yet thank you so
much for listening today and as always
happy networking
[Music]